## |B|


### Balietti, S., & Riedl, C. (2021). Incentives, competition, and inequality in markets for creative production. Research Policy, 50(4), 104212. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2021.104212

Balietti et al., 2021

**Tags:** Competition; Peer Review; Experiment; Innovation

The authors conduct an online experiment, having people create images and evaluating them across several iterations. What they find is that the reward structure of this "creative market" shapes what kind of things get created, and can drive inequality in the system. Specifically,

> The reward structures affect not only the quality of what is produced but also the style—the trajectory of innovation—through cultural evolution. As producers repeatedly submit their work to the top tier, a distinct style of work emerges. This shows that the level of competition affects not only the absolute level of novelty and quality, but also the direction of innovation. Repeated submissions build on each other and evolve a distinct style over time

In addition:

> We find that two micro level effects contribute to inequality in the stratified market. First, successful producers who accumulate slack resources remain more innovative than producers without slack resources, which provides them with cumulative advantage. Second, the increased competition amplifies individual-level differences. Some innovators thrive in the competitive environment, while others fall behind. In addition, the harsh competition for the scarce but high payoff of the toptier outlet fuels strategic behavior during the peer review process. This instills a feeling of unfairness among producers and likely contributes to higher exit rates.

So scarcity of "top spots" does fuel high-quality output, but is also drives people to exit the system. Excessive competative pressures can also discourage people from competing for these scarse resources, lowering the quality of their work, even if they stay in the system. 

### Bozeman, B., Dietz, J. S., & Gaughan, M. (2001). Scientific and technical human capital: An alternative model for research evaluation. International Journal of Technology Management, 22(7–8), 716–740. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJTM.2001.002988

Bozeman, Dietz, & Gaughan (2001)

**Tags:** Human capital; Social capital; Evaluation; Theory

The authors argue that we should move beyond evaluating science and scientists through their discrete products (i.e., publications) and instead consider a more holistic "human capital" approach to science, or more specifically, a "S&T Human Capital" appraoch. The theoretical framework roughly outlines the following:
- "Gives less attention to the discrete products and immediate outcomes from scientific projects and programs and more attention to scientists' career trajectories and their sustained ability to contribute and enhance their capabilities."
- Encompases not only the researcher's skills and traditional "capital" but also the sum total of their tacit knowledge
- An emphesis is placed on the _value_ or _nature_ of a researchers knoweldge or capital—no two degrees are the same, and researchers gain unique tacit knoweldge from their experiences and accomplishments
- Also considers social capital, or that capital that stems from the relationships between people, rather than any individual person. 
- Considers a researcher's S&T human capital as perpetually in flux, always changing from one time period to the next
- CVs offer a unique window into studying S&T human capital, since they outline the researchers accomplishments and experiences. 


Also really interesting is the notion that science and education themeslves are kinds of capital-generating entities, generating either:
- human capital, such as new skills and capabilities for people, or,
- non-human capital, such as materials and objects for generating new capital

Quotes:
- "Scientists employ a wide variety of networkmediated resources to enable their work and these resources—this scientific, technical and commercial social capital—is uniquely configured for any particular scientist. As such, it is part of the unique S&T human capital he or she brings to any project or work task."
- "The complexities of an S&T human capital approach to evaluation are prodigious because the approach is holistic. Rather than focusing on discrete products produced by projects, the focus is on the capacities generated by projects which, in turn, require knowledge of the full complement of human resources brought into the project and some idea as to the determinants of those resources."
