# Shah, S. (2020). The Next Great Migration: The Beauty and Terror of Life on the Move. Bloomsbury Publishing.

Shah (2020)

**Tags:** Migration; Mobility; Ecology; History of Science


Summary: A high-level overview of the concept of migration, both human and non-human, that illustrates the centrality of mogration and movement to all life on earth, especially to humans. There is a history of science focusing on ecology and race science, pointing to the long-standing assumption of a "sedentary earth", one where animals, plants, and people all belong to a specific place. Shah spends the book dismantling this notion, arguing that borders are and have always been permeable, and that all living beings have a long history of moving, often across long and perilous distances. Migration serves to inject novelty into systems, forcing changes to environments, genetics, and cultures in a way that keeps them healthy and ever-changing. Anti-immigration rhetoric, often inspired by conservation (especially invasive-species conservation), is unfounded, and we need to move to a new view of migration as an opportunity, not a risk. This, she argues, is how humanity could potentially benefit from migrations brought on by climate change, and that by allowing people to move more freely, we may create a more humane and healthy society. 

Key Ideas:
- It is easy to think that the world is stable, sedentary. This is very far from the truth. Plants, animals, and humans are incredibly mobile, and migration is a normal aspect of earth. 
- Borders between ecosystems, nations, societies, etc., are and have always been permeable
- Migrants inject novelty into living and social systems
- Humans have always migrated, so much so that we could be called "Homo Migrato", and there is little to no genetic variation between gorups of people. Even the most homogeneous decendants can not claim to be "pure"—they are mixed too.
- Xenophobia emerges, in part, from spectacle, by drawing attention to the distinctions between "us" and "them". But immigrants are often unnoticed, and assimilate quickly when there is no spectacle directed at them.  


Structure:
- Begins with a narrative overview of the idea of human and non-human migration (Exodus).
- Moves to a discussion of anti-immigratn backlash, primarily focusing on baclkash against human migrants (Panic). Here Shah argues that many of he fears of immigrants are unfounded—they are healthier, they don't raise crime, they assimilate within a generation, and they don't hurt jobs. The fears of immigrants are largely manufactured. 
- The next chapter (Linnaeus's Loathsome Harlotly) focuses on the history of Carl Linneus and attempts to study humans and classify life, which tended to reinforce the assumptions of differences between humans and that species belong to specific places 
- Afterwards, Shah explores the historical fear fo "hybrids", that is, mixed-raced people, which contributed to the eugenics movement and anti-immigrant politics (The Deadly Hybrid)
- Shah then discusses the idea of the "Suicidal Zombie Migrants", which is this notion that migration is an inhernetly deadly and suicidal act not carried our in the natural order of things. Migration was viewed as a "vector of death". 
- Next is a discussion of the idea of "overpopulation" (Malthus's Hideous Blashpemy), and the fears that immigration would contribute to an over-populated future, and how this was wrong. There was this idea that the world was zero-sum, and that nations had a set amount of "resources" that would be used up if immigrants came. Environmentalists allied with nativists to launch anti-immigrant policies. 
- In a very important chapter, Shah outlines her idea of "Homo Migrato", indicating that humans are biologically adapted for migration, and that the history of humans is one of movement. And humans were barely even different—99.9% of our DNA was the same, and most of the genetic variant was within populations, not between them
- She moves to a discussion of the "alien", specifically focusing on how notions of invasive species and immigrant invaders have pervaded convervation and politics, but she shows how these are all wrong. But movement has always happened, sometimes "black swan" migrations had drastic effects. 
- In "The Migrant Formula", SHah outlines attempts to understand why and how people migrate. Usually people theoreized migration as a response to crisis, but Shah also outlines how it can just be a natural response to changing environments, and even a response to new opportunities. 
- Finally, in the Wall, Shah devotes a chapter to discussing the rise of anti-immigrant sentiment around the world, and the creation of barriers to migration around the world. Some of these are unintentional, such as highways that block animals's movements. Others are purposeful, such as walls and fences to block human migrants. But people and animals migrate nonetheless, often risking life and safety. 


Quotes:
- "Even as the hollow core of the case against migrants lay exposed, certainty about the existential threat they posed persisted. It bubbled up from a deeper sense of violation. The idea that certain people and species belong in certain fixed places has had a long history in Western culture. Under its logic, migration is by necessity a catastrophe, becasue it violates the natural order" (pg 62)
- "The mixing of peoples from different places posed no peril. Just the opposite: by injecting change and innovation into cultural practices, migration was "an integral factor in the history of human civilization," as one of his biographers put it." (pg 125)
- "As GPS technology would later allow biologists to document, wild species, like peoples, move around all the time, whether through their own locomation or by being carried on the winds, current,s or backs of other moving creatures. Inserting themselves into continuously shifting landscapes, most either fail, struggle, or incorperate themselves inconspicuously in temporary assemblages that themselves assort and reassort dynamically. (which is why biologists would also find that the introduction of a species from one landscape into another generally increases biodiversity.) It is true that predators and pathogens itroduced into relatively closed ecosystems, such as lakes and islands, can drive already-resident species to extinction. But most ecosystems do not have closed borders around them" (pg 147)
- "According to the geneticists' analysis, the 147 women of different racitla nad continental backgrounds had shared common ancestors as recently as two hundred thousand years ago. If true, the long period of isolation that scientists had presumed for centureis didn't exist. The peoples of the world had emerged from a common ancestor so recently that they had had far less time to differentiate than previously believed. ANd they had migrated during prehistoric times in a far speedier and more extensive fashion than anyone had imagined. IN just a few hundred thousand years, people had catapulted themselves into every last corner of the planet." (pg 201)
- "Far from being fixed, our bodies are fluid. Their shapes, sizes, colors, and ability to withstand climatic variations are not locked in for generations by rigid blueprints. We shed forms and physiologies in favor of others, depending on the changing context in which we find ourselves. Out bodies have evolved in other words, to 'evade substantial genetic commitment' to local ecological conditions. Such environmental mulability does not evolve in immobile creatures that live in static, unchanging environments. It evolves in creatures who migrate. Our bodies are built for it" (pg 276)
- Migration is a force of nature, rooted in human biology and history, along with that of the scores of other wild species with whom we share this changing planet. Over the long history of life on earth, its benefits have outweighted its costs. (pg 283)
